{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1024{\fonttbl{\f0\froman Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue127;\red0\green127\blue127;\red0\green127\blue0;\red127\green0\blue127;\red127\green0\blue0;\red127\green127\blue0;\red127\green127\blue127;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\s244\fi360 \fs16\up6\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 footnote reference;}{\s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext245 footnote text;}{\s252\fi360\li360 \b\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 heading 3;}{\s254\qc\fi360\sb240 
\b\fs32\ul\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s255\fi360\li720 \lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext255 Normal Indent;}{\fi360 \lang1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s2\qc\fi360 \fs48\lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext2 Title;}{\s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 \sbasedon0\snext3 List;}{
\s4\fi-360\li1440 \lang1033 \sbasedon3\snext4 SubList;}}{\info{\title Machine Study Program}{\subject About the Software}{\author Larry Bennett/Donald Whisnant}{\operator Larry Bennett}{\creatim\yr1994\mo7\dy1\hr16\min51}
{\revtim\yr1994\mo7\dy1\hr16\min52}{\version3}{\edmins87}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords67221}{\nofchars75406}{\vern16417}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt720\margb1440\gutter0 \widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \linex0\endnhere \pard\plain \fi360 
\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} main_index}}{\fs16\up6  }{\fs16\up6 ${\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Multipli Machine Study Program}} 
\par \{bml mmc1.bmp\}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s2\qc\fi360 \fs48\lang1033 {\b\i MULTIPLI}{\b 
\par }MACHINE STUDY
\par and
\par Analysis PROGRAM
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
\par \pard \qc\fi360 {\uldb Disclaimer}{\v Disclaimer}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Why This Program Was Developed}{\v WhyProgram}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Installation}{\v Installation}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb About the Program}{\v About}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Application}{\v Application}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Terms}{\v Terms}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Other Helps}{\v OtherHelps}{\v 
\par }
\par {\uldb Control Terms}{\v ControlTerms}{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb Print and Edit}{\v PrintEdit}{\uldb 
\par }{\uldb In Case of Trouble}{\v Trouble}{\v 
\par }\pard \fi360 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Disclaimer}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Disclaimer}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Disclaimer}} DISCLAIMER
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 {\b\i 
\par }
Before we go into the working features of this software, let us review the rules of use and application for a moment.  Unfortunately, due to such a wide variation in overall mill operations and, in some instances, " voodoo " paper making, the following di
sclaimer is necessary.
\par {\b\i 
\par }{\b\i MULTIPL}{\i I} neither assumes or implies any responsibility, monetarily or morally, for data generated by nor the application of any data generated or related to the application of this software.  Said software is offered, {\b\ul free of charge}
, to be used only as a tool or reference in the decision making process by others, for whatever purpose.  Furthermore, {\b\i MULTIPLI}
 neither accepts nor implies any responsibility for the interface to or the compatibility with any other software or computer system or any problems resulting from either of the aforementioned.
\par 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} WhyProgram}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Why This Program Was Developed}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Why This Program Was Developed}} WHY THIS PROGRAM WAS DEVELOPED

\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 All paper machine's production is governed by the rate of DRAINAGE hereafter referred to as " RATE OF FORMATION ".  The data and knowledge base for this software is drawn from almost twe
nty years (at this writing) of cylinder machine design and fabrication.  Along with this, of course, goes almost the same amount of time and intense scrutiny of both{\b  }{\b\i MULTIPLI's}
 and other manufactures' types of like equipment.  The intent is to assist in furthering this art form to the {\b pinnacle of potential }as related to the{\b  RATE OF FORMATION}
.  As we learned more and more about cylinder board manufacturing, we also learned more about the people attempting to manufacture under this process.  Due to the varied
 backgrounds, learning experiences, and types of equipment used, no common nomenclature nor general understanding exist unilaterally.  We feel that if some{\b  common comparison system }
were in place, a much better overall appreciation of this manufacturing process could be achieved.  Example: the best of these numbers are produced with a 42" dia. dry vat running at a 0.6% consistency with a 320 C.S.F..  This program contains the most ba
sic of formulas used in such an analysis system.  We have attempted to prese
nt this information in a simple and easy to use format, with as predictable results as possible.  We are always eager for any input that would either simplify, expand on, or improve this software and it's application.
\par 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Installation}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Installation}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Installation}} INSTALLATION
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
We have chosen to supply this program to run under WINDOWS  by MICROSOFT.  The screen and edit features of windows are very flexable and useful with in the interaction of this software.  The first task, of course, is to install the program:
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 1) Open WINDOWS
\par 2) Insert the 3 1/2" disk into the appropriate drive
\par 3) In PROGRAM MANAGER, under FILE, tag RUN.
\par 4) Inter the appropriate DRIVE  followed by " \\INSTALL "
\par \pard \s3\fi-360\li1440 Example  A:\\INSTALL
\par \pard \s3\fi-360\li1080 
\par Note:  This program was designed to work with VGA Displays. If you have an EGA display, the graphic results will be poor.
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} About}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} About the Program}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} About}} ABOUT THE PROGRAM
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
The cylinder board industry basically stands on two feet, FORMATION QUANTITY and FORMATION QUALITY. The quantity and quality of product directs every major decision making process, driving this industry in one form or another.  The paper making process is
 like a large circle with QUALITY at one end of the diagonal and QUANTITY at the other.  Literally hundreds of variables and constants lie on both halves of this circle.  A single change of any point on the circle affects the total paper making either dir
ectly or indirectly in varying degrees.  Therefore, when using this program, one should fill in as much information as possible in all of the related windows before drawing conclusions.  
\par Every variable within the program is changeable.  This is to say, all numbers entered will produce a numerical result {\b\i regardless of reality}. {\ul Example}: The logic base used is centered around the formula:
\par 
\par \pard \qc\fi360 SHORT TONS PER DAY / FACE WIDTH in inches / NUMBER OF CYLINDERS
\par \pard \fi360 \tab 
\par Unlike the comparison of TONS PER INCH OF TRIM, this approach yields a technique by which present or potential maximum production of any grade on any machine may be analyzed, since all calculations are based on {\b tons / inch of forming area}.
\par To help keep the numbers within {\b\i reality}, we have installed a set of " bench marks ".  These numbers supplied by {\b\i MULTIPLI }
are in two(2) grades, FOLDING BOX and TUBE BOARD.  At present, three(3) cylinder sizes may be solicited, 36" DIA. , 42" DIA. ,  AND 48" DIA.  The data is from only quality board machines, at present sta
ndards, from Japan, U.S. of  A., Canada, and some of the better of South America.  Therefore, the {\b\i MULTIPLI }CONSTANT is about Quality and not maximum predicable tons for any given machine.
\par 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Application}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Application}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Application}} APPLICATION  
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 To further protect the reality aspects and maintain real-time mathematical continuity, the user will notice that some " boxes " are w
hite and some are dark. Only a white box may be changed at any one time.  Box selection may be accomplished by " TAB " or " SHIFT (+) TAB " preferable, although a mouse or track ball can be used as well. 
\par 
\par All calculations can be done in the metric system as well. To change from U.S. to metric or vice versa:
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 
\par 1) Tag CANCEL in the lower right hand corner.
\par 
\par 2) Tag SETUP. now tag metric. A check mark will appear if you are in metric. No check mark means you are in U.S..
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Terms}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 ${\footnote 
\pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Terms}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Terms}} TERMS 
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 1) {\b TONS / DAY}
.(@ 2,000 lbs./ton in U.S. or  kilograms in metric) Please note that with this program, one can view and use this number either from the wet end or as finished goods. This is particularly helpful in sizing of pulpers, piping, and the like.
\par 2) {\b SHEET TRIM}. ( in inches or millimeters) Like tons/day, sheet trim can be the formed tons at the wet end for beater room and wet end design or the trimmed tons at  the dry end.
\par 3) {\b CONSISTENCY}.  This is the delivered consistency to the vat and not the actual forming consistency within the vat. If there is a top and/or back liner, these should be calculated separately.(also see HEAD BOX DILUTION)
\par 4){\b  BASIS WEIGHT}. (in lbs/1000 square feet or grams/meter squared)
\par 5) {\b MACHINE SPEED}. (in feet/minute or meters/minute)
\par 6) {\b NUMBER OF VATS}. This is calculated from the {\b\i MULTIPLI }constants or may be entered for an existing or desired machine. If the{\b\i  MULTIPLI }constants are used, a single stock system is assumed.
\par 7) {\b GALLONS PER MINUTE}.( or liters/minute) Two(2) numbers are presented here, the total machine consumption and the average per vat.  If the top or back liners are different, this should be allowed for.
\par 8) {\b MACHINE EFFICIENCY}. If left at 100%, 24 hour days at 365 days per year is assumed.  This adjustment changes tons per day as to a years production.
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} OtherHelps}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Other Helps}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Other Helps}} OTHER HELPS
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 Several other helps have been included that can play a major role in the overall design of the paper machine.
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 1) {\b FLOW}
\par \pard\plain \s4\fi-360\li1440 \lang1033 A) {\b PIPE SIZE. }
This section will allow you to enter either of the two(2) variables and calculate the third by tagging it.  Example: if you know the gallons per minute and velocity in feet per second you want, enter them and then the tag pipe size "CALC' button to get th
e correct pipe ID.
\par B) {\b AREA SIZE}. This works just like the above, except we are playing to a known or unknown cross sectional area. This is very helpful in the design of reducers, headboxes, etc.
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 2) {\b HEADBOX DILUTION}. Here we are starting with a known consistency. We can then find how much water is required to dilute to another consistency.
\par 3) {\b TONS PER DAY}.  This is a most important part of this program.  The author has found that if you complete this screen and tag TRANSFER, this will pre-set the balance of the set up.
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} ControlTerms}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Control Terms}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Control Terms}} CONTROL TERMS
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 1) {\b CALC}. After you have entered the required information, tag CALC (or press ENTER) to see the results.
\par 2) {\b TRANSFER}. Any time this option appears, when you tag TRANSFER this information will be transferred back to the master window. If CANCEL is tagged first, all calculations are scrapped.
\par 3) {\b CANCEL}. Tagging this control will clear and exit the current window, losing any information in that window.
\par 4){\b  HELP}. These are, more or less, an in c.p.u. copy of this text.
\par 5) {\b PRINT}. SEE THE SECTION " {\b PRINT AND EDIT} ".
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par \pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li1080 \lang1033 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} PrintEdit}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} Print and Edit}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} Print and Edit}} PRINT AND EDIT
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 
The Main Window in the Machine Study program is actually a full-screen editor window. When printing, the "printout" information is first placed on this editor window (either clearing or appending present editor data).  Then this editor window can be sent 
directly to the printer.
\par Instead of printing directly to the printer, you can exit the Printout Dialog box just before printing (immediately after the information is printed to the editor window).  Once all dialog windows have been exited, the user can select the SAVE option from
 the FILE menu selection.  This technique allows the user to save and store information about a particular paper machine or setup configuration.
\par Note that at any later time, the user can use the OPEN option from the FILE menu selection to retrieve the save
d file (or any other text file for that matter).  This allows new information to be appended to an existing file or for the saved information to be printed (by using the PRINT option from the FILE menu selection).
\par Since this data is saved as a standard ASCII TEXT FILE, it can be copied or exported to almost any other document or program.
\par Note that when using the printer from the program, you need to make sure that either the WINDOWS DEFAULT PRINTER is setup to be the correct printer for printing (See MICR
OSOFT WINDOWS DOCUMENTATION on the PRINT MANAGER utility), OR you need to first use the PRINTER SETUP option from the FILE menu with the Machine Study Program BEFORE attempting to print to the physical printer.
\par 
\par 
\par {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s254\qc\fi360\sb240 \b\fs32\ul\lang1033 {\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 \page }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 #{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 #} Trouble}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033  }{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 $
{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 $} In Case of Trouble}}{\plain \fs16\up6\lang1033 K{\footnote \pard\plain \s245\fi360 \fs20\lang1033 {\fs16\up6 K} In Case of Trouble}} IN CASE OF TROUBLE
\par \pard\plain \fi360 \lang1033 If you have trouble installing or using the software, or would like to obtain additional copies or software updates, address all questions to:
\par 
\par \pard \fi360\li2880 {\i Multipli} Machinery
\par 7631 Frosch Rd.
\par Charlotte, NC 28208
\par (704) 392-4404 (Voice)
\par (704) 392-4822 (Fax)
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \fi360 {\uldb Machine Study}{\v main_index}
\par 
\par }